PACKAGE_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Site Comparator Package Summary

## 🎉 What We've Accomplished

We've successfully transformed the Site Comparator tool into a installable npm package with documentation and examples.

## 📦 Package Structure

```
site-comparator/
├── comparator.js              # Main tool file
├── package.json              # NPM package configuration
├── README.md                 # Comprehensive documentation
├── LICENSE                   # MIT License
├── .gitignore               # Git ignore rules
├── examples/                 # Usage examples
│   ├── README.md            # Examples documentation
│   ├── basic-usage.js       # Basic comparison example
│   ├── authentication-example.js  # Auth examples
│   └── ci-cd-example.js     # CI/CD integration
└── comparator-results/       # Output directory (auto-created)
```

## 🚀 Installation Methods

### Global Installation (Recommended)
```bash
npm install -g @akukral/site-comparator
```

### Local Installation
```bash
npm install @akukral/site-comparator
```

### From Source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/akukral/site-comparator
cd site-comparator
npm install
npm link
```

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Command Line
```bash
# Basic comparison
site-comparator https://staging.example.com https://example.com

# With options
site-comparator https://dev.site.com https://site.com --max-pages 20 --delay 2000

# With authentication
COMPARATOR_USERNAME=user COMPARATOR_PASSWORD=pass \
  site-comparator https://staging.example.com https://example.com
```

### Programmatic Usage
```javascript
const Comparator = require('@akukral/site-comparator');

const comparator = new Comparator({
    maxPages: 20,
    maxDiscovery: 500,
    delay: 1500,
    timeout: 45000
});

await comparator.compare('https://staging.example.com', 'https://example.com');
```

## 📊 Key Features

### ✅ Intelligent Content Analysis
- Compares content structure, not just text
- Detects content reordering vs. actual changes
- Uses Longest Common Subsequence (LCS) algorithm
- Filters out spurious differences (CSRF tokens, timestamps)

### ✅ Authentication Support
- Interactive credential prompts
- Environment variable configuration
- Per-domain authentication
- Secure credential handling

### ✅ Comprehensive Reporting
- Detailed HTML reports with visual indicators
- JSON reports for programmatic analysis
- Difference type categorization
- Content change analysis

### ✅ Flexible Configuration
- Customizable crawling limits
- Configurable delays and timeouts
- Output directory customization
- Ignore lists for dynamic content

## 🔧 Package Configuration

### package.json Highlights
- **Name**: `@akukral/site-comparator`
- **Version**: `1.2.0`
- **Bin**: Global command-line tool
- **Keywords**: Comprehensive SEO keywords
- **License**: MIT
- **Engines**: Node.js 16+
- **Dependencies**: puppeteer, cheerio

### NPM Package Features
- ✅ Global installation support
- ✅ Command-line interface
- ✅ Programmatic API
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation
- ✅ MIT License
- ✅ Examples included
- ✅ Proper .gitignore

## 📁 Examples Included

### 1. Basic Usage (`examples/basic-usage.js`)
- Simple website comparison
- Custom configuration options
- Error handling demonstration

### 2. Authentication (`examples/authentication-example.js`)
- Direct credential passing
- Environment variable authentication
- Per-site authentication configuration

### 3. CI/CD Integration (`examples/ci-cd-example.js`)
- Automated testing workflows
- Environment variable configuration
- Exit code handling for CI/CD
- Health check mode

## 🎯 Target Use Cases

### Development & Testing
- Compare staging vs production environments
- Validate deployments
- Test content changes
- Quality assurance

### CI/CD Integration
- Automated deployment validation
- Pre-deployment testing
- Post-deployment verification
- Quality gates

### Content Management
- Compare content versions
- Validate content migrations
- Monitor content changes
- Audit content differences

## 🔒 Security Features

- Credentials never logged or stored
- Hidden password input during prompts
- Environment variable support for CI/CD
- No sensitive data in reports
- Secure authentication handling

## 📈 Performance Features

- Configurable crawling limits
- Intelligent page discovery
- Efficient content comparison
- Optimized memory usage
- Parallel processing where possible

## 🚨 Error Handling

- Graceful timeout handling
- Authentication failure recovery
- Network error management
- Invalid URL handling
- Comprehensive error reporting

## 📊 Output Formats

### HTML Reports
- Visual difference highlighting
- Summary metrics
- Difference type breakdown
- Content change analysis
- Error listings

### JSON Reports
- Detailed comparison data
- Page-by-page differences
- Content analysis results
- Error logs
- Summary statistics

## 🔄 Version Management

### Current Version: 1.2.0
- Crawl and discovery improvements, defaults updated

### Future Enhancements
- Additional comparison algorithms
- More authentication methods
- Enhanced reporting options
- Performance optimizations
- Additional examples

## 🛠️ Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 16+
- npm or yarn
- Git (for source installation)

### Development Commands
```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Link for global development
npm link

# Test the tool
site-comparator --help

# Run examples
node examples/basic-usage.js
```

## 📝 Publishing to NPM

### Before Publishing
1. Update version in package.json
2. Test global installation: `npm link`
3. Verify all examples work
4. Check documentation accuracy

### Publishing Steps
```bash
# Login to NPM
npm login

# Publish the package
npm publish

# Verify installation
npm install -g @akukral/site-comparator
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Guidelines
1. Follow existing code style
2. Add comprehensive documentation
3. Include examples for new features
4. Update README.md as needed
5. Test thoroughly before submitting

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch
3. Make changes
4. Add tests/examples
5. Submit pull request

## 📞 Support

### Documentation
- Main README.md for comprehensive usage
- Examples directory for practical examples
- Inline code comments for API details

### Issues
- GitHub issues for bug reports
- Feature requests welcome
- Documentation improvements appreciated

---

## 🎉 Success Metrics

✅ **Package Structure**: Complete and professional
✅ **Documentation**: Comprehensive and clear
✅ **Examples**: Practical and well-documented
✅ **Installation**: Works globally and locally
✅ **CLI Interface**: Functional and user-friendly
✅ **Programmatic API**: Clean and well-designed
✅ **Error Handling**: Robust and informative
✅ **Security**: Credentials handled securely
✅ **Performance**: Optimized for real-world use
✅ **Maintainability**: Well-structured and documented

The Site Comparator is now ready for production use as a professional npm package! 🚀

Commit message:

chore(docs): better comments  & bump version to 1.3.0
- Adding in JSDoc comments.
- Update package.json version from 1.2.2 to 1.3.0
- Update user agent string in comparator.js
- Add new version entry in CHANGELOG.md
- Minor documentation updates in README.md and PACKAGE_SUMMARY.md

PACKAGE_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Site Comparator Package Summary

## 🎉 What We've Accomplished

We've successfully transformed the Site Comparator tool into a installable npm package with documentation and examples.

## 📦 Package Structure

```
site-comparator/
├── comparator.js              # Main tool file
├── package.json              # NPM package configuration
├── README.md                 # Comprehensive documentation
├── LICENSE                   # MIT License
├── .gitignore               # Git ignore rules
├── examples/                 # Usage examples
│   ├── README.md            # Examples documentation
│   ├── basic-usage.js       # Basic comparison example
│   ├── authentication-example.js  # Auth examples
│   └── ci-cd-example.js     # CI/CD integration
└── comparator-results/       # Output directory (auto-created)
```

## 🚀 Installation Methods

### Global Installation (Recommended)
```bash
npm install -g @akukral/site-comparator
```

### Local Installation
```bash
npm install @akukral/site-comparator
```

### From Source
```bash
git clone https://github.com/akukral/site-comparator
cd site-comparator
npm install
npm link
```

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Command Line
```bash
# Basic comparison
site-comparator https://staging.example.com https://example.com

# With options
site-comparator https://dev.site.com https://site.com --max-pages 20 --delay 2000

# With authentication
COMPARATOR_USERNAME=user COMPARATOR_PASSWORD=pass \
  site-comparator https://staging.example.com https://example.com
```

### Programmatic Usage
```javascript
const Comparator = require('@akukral/site-comparator');

const comparator = new Comparator({
    maxPages: 20,
    maxDiscovery: 500,
    delay: 1500,
    timeout: 45000
});

await comparator.compare('https://staging.example.com', 'https://example.com');
```

## 📊 Key Features

### ✅ Intelligent Content Analysis
- Compares content structure, not just text
- Detects content reordering vs. actual changes
- Uses Longest Common Subsequence (LCS) algorithm
- Filters out spurious differences (CSRF tokens, timestamps)

### ✅ Authentication Support
- Interactive credential prompts
- Environment variable configuration
- Per-domain authentication
- Secure credential handling

### ✅ Comprehensive Reporting
- Detailed HTML reports with visual indicators
- JSON reports for programmatic analysis
- Difference type categorization
- Content change analysis

### ✅ Flexible Configuration
- Customizable crawling limits
- Configurable delays and timeouts
- Output directory customization
- Ignore lists for dynamic content

## 🔧 Package Configuration

### package.json Highlights
- **Name**: `@akukral/site-comparator`
- **Version**: `1.3.0`
- **Bin**: Global command-line tool
- **Keywords**: Comprehensive SEO keywords
- **License**: MIT
- **Engines**: Node.js 16+
- **Dependencies**: puppeteer, cheerio

### NPM Package Features
- ✅ Global installation support
- ✅ Command-line interface
- ✅ Programmatic API
- ✅ Comprehensive documentation
- ✅ MIT License
- ✅ Examples included
- ✅ Proper .gitignore

## 📁 Examples Included

### 1. Basic Usage (`examples/basic-usage.js`)
- Simple website comparison
- Custom configuration options
- Error handling demonstration

### 2. Authentication (`examples/authentication-example.js`)
- Direct credential passing
- Environment variable authentication
- Per-site authentication configuration

### 3. CI/CD Integration (`examples/ci-cd-example.js`)
- Automated testing workflows
- Environment variable configuration
- Exit code handling for CI/CD
- Health check mode

## 🎯 Target Use Cases

### Development & Testing
- Compare staging vs production environments
- Validate deployments
- Test content changes
- Quality assurance

### CI/CD Integration
- Automated deployment validation
- Pre-deployment testing
- Post-deployment verification
- Quality gates

### Content Management
- Compare content versions
- Validate content migrations
- Monitor content changes
- Audit content differences

## 🔒 Security Features

- Credentials never logged or stored
- Hidden password input during prompts
- Environment variable support for CI/CD
- No sensitive data in reports
- Secure authentication handling

## 📈 Performance Features

- Configurable crawling limits
- Intelligent page discovery
- Efficient content comparison
- Optimized memory usage
- Parallel processing where possible

## 🚨 Error Handling

- Graceful timeout handling
- Authentication failure recovery
- Network error management
- Invalid URL handling
- Comprehensive error reporting

## 📊 Output Formats

### HTML Reports
- Visual difference highlighting
- Summary metrics
- Difference type breakdown
- Content change analysis
- Error listings

### JSON Reports
- Detailed comparison data
- Page-by-page differences
- Content analysis results
- Error logs
- Summary statistics

## 🔄 Version Management

### Current Version: 1.3.0
- Minor release with maintenance updates and JSDoc comments

### Future Enhancements
- Additional comparison algorithms
- More authentication methods
- Enhanced reporting options
- Performance optimizations
- Additional examples

## 🛠️ Development Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 16+
- npm or yarn
- Git (for source installation)

### Development Commands
```bash
# Install dependencies
npm install

# Link for global development
npm link

# Test the tool
site-comparator --help

# Run examples
node examples/basic-usage.js
```

## 📝 Publishing to NPM

### Before Publishing
1. Update version in package.json
2. Test global installation: `npm link`
3. Verify all examples work
4. Check documentation accuracy

### Publishing Steps
```bash
# Login to NPM
npm login

# Publish the package
npm publish

# Verify installation
npm install -g @akukral/site-comparator
```

## 🤝 Contributing

### Guidelines
1. Follow existing code style
2. Add comprehensive documentation
3. Include examples for new features
4. Update README.md as needed
5. Test thoroughly before submitting

### Development Workflow
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch
3. Make changes
4. Add tests/examples
5. Submit pull request

## 📞 Support

### Documentation
- Main README.md for comprehensive usage
- Examples directory for practical examples
- Inline code comments for API details

### Issues
- GitHub issues for bug reports
- Feature requests welcome
- Documentation improvements appreciated

---

## 🎉 Success Metrics

✅ **Package Structure**: Complete and professional
✅ **Documentation**: Comprehensive and clear
✅ **Examples**: Practical and well-documented
✅ **Installation**: Works globally and locally
✅ **CLI Interface**: Functional and user-friendly
✅ **Programmatic API**: Clean and well-designed
✅ **Error Handling**: Robust and informative
✅ **Security**: Credentials handled securely
✅ **Performance**: Optimized for real-world use
✅ **Maintainability**: Well-structured and documented

The Site Comparator is now ready for production use as a professional npm package! 🚀
